Resources/doc/index.rst, before:

========
Overview
========

This bundle enhances the Symfony2 Security Component by adding several new features.

Features:

- powerful expression-based authorization language
- method security authorization
- authorization configuration via annotations

Installation
------------
Add the following to your ``deps`` file::

    [JMSSecurityExtraBundle]
        git=https://github.com/schmittjoh/JMSSecurityExtraBundle.git
        target=/bundles/JMS/SecurityExtraBundle
        
    ; Dependencies:
    ;--------------
    [metadata]
        git=https://github.com/schmittjoh/metadata.git
        version=1.1.0 ; <- make sure to get 1.1, not 1.0
    
    ; see https://github.com/schmittjoh/JMSAopBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/index.rst    
    [JMSAopBundle]
        git=https://github.com/schmittjoh/JMSAopBundle.git
        target=/bundles/JMS/AopBundle
    
    [cg-library]
        git=https://github.com/schmittjoh/cg-library.git
        
    ; This dependency is optional (you need it if you are using non-service controllers):
    ; see https://github.com/schmittjoh/JMSDiExtraBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/index.rst
    [JMSDiExtraBundle]
        git=https://github.com/schmittjoh/JMSDiExtraBundle.git
        target=/bundles/JMS/DiExtraBundle

Then register the bundle with your kernel::

    // in AppKernel::registerBundles()
    $bundles = array(
        // ...
        new JMS\AopBundle\JMSAopBundle(),
        new JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\JMSSecurityExtraBundle(),
        new JMS\DiExtraBundle\JMSDiExtraBundle($this),
        // ...
    );

Make sure that you also register the namespaces with the autoloader::

    // app/autoload.php
    $loader->registerNamespaces(array(
        // ...
        'JMS'              => __DIR__.'/../vendor/bundles',
        'Metadata'         => __DIR__.'/../vendor/metadata/src',
        'CG'               => __DIR__.'/../vendor/cg-library/src',
        // ...
    ));

Configuration
-------------

Below, you find the default configuration::

    # app/config/config.yml
    jms_security_extra:
        # Whether you want to secure all services (true), or only secure specific
        # services (false); see also below 
        secure_all_services: false
        
        # Enabling this setting will add an additional special attribute "IS_IDDQD".
        # Anybody with this attribute will effectively bypass all security checks.
        enable_iddqd_attribute: false        
        
        # Enables expression language
        expressions: false

        # Allows you to disable some, or all built-in voters
        voters:
            disable_authenticated: false
            disable_role:          false
            disable_acl:           false
            
        # Allows you to specify access control rules for specific methods, such
        # as controller actions
        method_access_control: { }


Expression-based Authorization Language
---------------------------------------
The expression language is a very powerful alternative to the simple attributes
of the security voting system. They allow to perform complex access decision
checks, and because they are compiled down to raw PHP, they are much faster than
the built-in voters. Also they are lazy-loading by nature, so you will also 
save some resources for example by not having to initialize the entire ACL system
on each request.

Programmatic Usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can execute expressions programmatically by using the ``isGranted`` method
of the SecurityContext. Some examples::

    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Security\Authorization\Expression\Expression;
    
    $securityContext->isGranted(array(new Expression('hasRole("A")')));
    $securityContext->isGranted(array(new Expression('hasRole("A") or (hasRole("B") and hasRole("C"))')));
    $securityContext->isGranted(array(new Expression('hasPermission(object, "VIEW")'), $object));
    $securityContext->isGranted(array(new Expression('token.getUsername() == "Johannes"')));

Twig Usage
~~~~~~~~~~
You can check expressions from Twig templates using the ``is_expr_granted``
function. Some examples::

    is_expr_granted("hasRole('FOO')")
    is_expr_granted("hasPermission(object, 'VIEW')", object)

Usage in Access Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can also use expressions in the ``access_control``::

    security:
        access_control:
            - { path: ^/foo, access: "hasRole('FOO') and hasRole('BAR')" }

Annotation-based Usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
see @PreAuthorize in the annotation reference

Reference
~~~~~~~~~
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Expression                        | Description                                |
+===================================+============================================+
| hasRole('ROLE')                   | Checks whether the token has a certain     |
|                                   | role.                                      |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| hasAnyRole('ROLE1', 'ROLE2', ...) | Checks whether the token has any of the    |
|                                   | given roles.                               |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| isAnonymous()                     | Checks whether the token is anonymous.     |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| isRememberMe()                    | Checks whether the token is remember me.   |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| isFullyAuthenticated()            | Checks whether the token is fully          |
|                                   | authenticated.                             |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| isAuthenticated()                 | Checks whether the token is not anonymous. |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| hasPermission(*var*, 'PERMISSION')| Checks whether the token has the given     |
|                                   | permission for the given object (requires  |
|                                   | the ACL system).                           |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| token                             | Variable that refers to the token          |
|                                   | which is currently in the security context.|
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| user                              | Variable that refers to the user           |
|                                   | which is currently in the security context.|
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| object                            | Variable that refers to the object for     |
|                                   | which access is being requested.           |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| #*paramName*                      | Any identifier prefixed with # refers to   |
|                                   | a parameter of the same name that is passed|
|                                   | to the method where the expression is used.|
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| and / &&                          | Binary "and" operator                      |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| or / ||                           | Binary "or" operator                       |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| ==                                | Binary "is equal" operator                 |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| not / !                           | Negation operator                          |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+

Method Security Authorization
-----------------------------
Generally, you can secure all public, or protected methods which are non-static,
and non-final. Private methods cannot be secured. You can also add metadata for
abstract methods, or interfaces which will then be applied to their concrete 
implementations automatically.

Access Control via DI configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can specify access control **expressions** in the DI configuration::

    # config.yml
    jms_security_extra:
        method_access_control:
            ':loginAction$': 'isAnonymous()'
            'AcmeFooBundle:.*:deleteAction': 'hasRole("ROLE_ADMIN")'
            '^MyNamespace\MyService::foo$': 'hasPermission(#user, "VIEW")' 

The pattern is a case-sensitive regular expression which is matched against two notations.
The first match is being used.

First, your pattern is matched against the notation for non-service controllers. 
This obviously is only done if your class is actually a controller, e.g. 
``AcmeFooBundle:Add:new`` for a controller named ``AddController`` and a method 
named ``newAction`` in a sub-namespace ``Controller`` in a bundle named ``AcmeFooBundle``. 

Last, your pattern is matched against the concatenation of the class name, and
the method name that is being called, e.g. ``My\Fully\Qualified\ClassName::myMethodName``.

**Note:** If you would like to secure non-service controllers, the 
``JMSDiExtraBundle`` must be installed.

Access Control via Annotations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you like to secure a service with annotations, you need to enable annotation
configuration for this service::

    <service id="foo" class="Bar">
        <tag name="security.secure_service"/>
    </service>

In case, you like to configure all services via annotations, you can also set
``secure_all_services`` to true. Then, you do not need to add a tag for each 
service.


Annotations
-----------
@PreAuthorize
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This annotation lets you define an expression (see the expression language
paragraph) which is executed prior to invoking a method::

    <?php
    
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\PreAuthorize;
    
    class MyService
    {
        /** @PreAuthorize("hasRole('A') or (hasRole('B') and hasRole('C'))") */
        public function secureMethod()
        {
            // ...
        }
    }

@Secure
~~~~~~~
This annotation lets you define who is allowed to invoke a method::

    <?php
    
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\Secure;
    
    class MyService
    {
        /**
         * @Secure(roles="ROLE_USER, ROLE_FOO, ROLE_ADMIN")
         */
        public function secureMethod() 
        {
            // ...
        }
    }

@SecureParam
~~~~~~~~~~~~
This annotation lets you define restrictions for parameters which are passed to
the method. This is only useful if the parameters are domain objects::

    <?php
    
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\SecureParam;
    
    class MyService
    {
        /**
         * @SecureParam(name="comment", permissions="EDIT, DELETE")
         * @SecureParam(name="post", permissions="OWNER")
         */
        public function secureMethod($comment, $post)
        {
            // ...
        }
    }

@SecureReturn
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This annotation lets you define restrictions for the value which is returned by
the method. This is also only useful if the returned value is a domain object::

    <?php
    
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\SecureReturn;
    
    class MyService
    {
        /**
         * @SecureReturn(permissions="VIEW")
         */
        public function secureMethod()
        {
            // ...
            
            return $domainObject;
        }
    }
    
@RunAs
~~~~~~
This annotation lets you specifiy roles which are added only for the duration 
of the method invocation. These roles will not be taken into consideration 
for before, or after invocation access decisions. 

This is typically used to implement a two-tier service layer where you have 
public and private services, and private services are only to be invoked 
through a specific public service::

    <?php
    
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\Secure;
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\RunAs;
    
    class MyPrivateService
    {
        /**
         * @Secure(roles="ROLE_PRIVATE_SERVICE")
         */
        public function aMethodOnlyToBeInvokedThroughASpecificChannel()
        {
            // ...
        }
    }
    
    class MyPublicService
    {
        protected $myPrivateService;
    
        /**
         * @Secure(roles="ROLE_USER")
         * @RunAs(roles="ROLE_PRIVATE_SERVICE")
         */
        public function canBeInvokedFromOtherServices()
        {
            return $this->myPrivateService->aMethodOnlyToBeInvokedThroughASpecificChannel();
        }
    }

@SatisfiesParentSecurityPolicy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This must be defined on a method that overrides a method which has security metadata.
It is there to ensure that you are aware the security of the overridden method cannot
be enforced anymore, and that you must copy over all annotations if you want to keep
them.

Commit message:

proposition to add a reminder to enable expressions before using @preAuthorize, maybe it will save someone some time

Resources/doc/index.rst, after:

========
Overview
========

This bundle enhances the Symfony2 Security Component by adding several new features.

Features:

- powerful expression-based authorization language
- method security authorization
- authorization configuration via annotations

Installation
------------
Add the following to your ``deps`` file::

    [JMSSecurityExtraBundle]
        git=https://github.com/schmittjoh/JMSSecurityExtraBundle.git
        target=/bundles/JMS/SecurityExtraBundle
        
    ; Dependencies:
    ;--------------
    [metadata]
        git=https://github.com/schmittjoh/metadata.git
        version=1.1.0 ; <- make sure to get 1.1, not 1.0
    
    ; see https://github.com/schmittjoh/JMSAopBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/index.rst    
    [JMSAopBundle]
        git=https://github.com/schmittjoh/JMSAopBundle.git
        target=/bundles/JMS/AopBundle
    
    [cg-library]
        git=https://github.com/schmittjoh/cg-library.git
        
    ; This dependency is optional (you need it if you are using non-service controllers):
    ; see https://github.com/schmittjoh/JMSDiExtraBundle/blob/master/Resources/doc/index.rst
    [JMSDiExtraBundle]
        git=https://github.com/schmittjoh/JMSDiExtraBundle.git
        target=/bundles/JMS/DiExtraBundle

Then register the bundle with your kernel::

    // in AppKernel::registerBundles()
    $bundles = array(
        // ...
        new JMS\AopBundle\JMSAopBundle(),
        new JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\JMSSecurityExtraBundle(),
        new JMS\DiExtraBundle\JMSDiExtraBundle($this),
        // ...
    );

Make sure that you also register the namespaces with the autoloader::

    // app/autoload.php
    $loader->registerNamespaces(array(
        // ...
        'JMS'              => __DIR__.'/../vendor/bundles',
        'Metadata'         => __DIR__.'/../vendor/metadata/src',
        'CG'               => __DIR__.'/../vendor/cg-library/src',
        // ...
    ));

Configuration
-------------

Below, you find the default configuration::

    # app/config/config.yml
    jms_security_extra:
        # Whether you want to secure all services (true), or only secure specific
        # services (false); see also below 
        secure_all_services: false
        
        # Enabling this setting will add an additional special attribute "IS_IDDQD".
        # Anybody with this attribute will effectively bypass all security checks.
        enable_iddqd_attribute: false        
        
        # Enables expression language
        expressions: false

        # Allows you to disable some, or all built-in voters
        voters:
            disable_authenticated: false
            disable_role:          false
            disable_acl:           false
            
        # Allows you to specify access control rules for specific methods, such
        # as controller actions
        method_access_control: { }


Expression-based Authorization Language
---------------------------------------
The expression language is a very powerful alternative to the simple attributes
of the security voting system. They allow to perform complex access decision
checks, and because they are compiled down to raw PHP, they are much faster than
the built-in voters. Also they are lazy-loading by nature, so you will also 
save some resources for example by not having to initialize the entire ACL system
on each request.

Programmatic Usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can execute expressions programmatically by using the ``isGranted`` method
of the SecurityContext. Some examples::

    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Security\Authorization\Expression\Expression;
    
    $securityContext->isGranted(array(new Expression('hasRole("A")')));
    $securityContext->isGranted(array(new Expression('hasRole("A") or (hasRole("B") and hasRole("C"))')));
    $securityContext->isGranted(array(new Expression('hasPermission(object, "VIEW")'), $object));
    $securityContext->isGranted(array(new Expression('token.getUsername() == "Johannes"')));

Twig Usage
~~~~~~~~~~
You can check expressions from Twig templates using the ``is_expr_granted``
function. Some examples::

    is_expr_granted("hasRole('FOO')")
    is_expr_granted("hasPermission(object, 'VIEW')", object)

Usage in Access Control
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can also use expressions in the ``access_control``::

    security:
        access_control:
            - { path: ^/foo, access: "hasRole('FOO') and hasRole('BAR')" }

Annotation-based Usage
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
see @PreAuthorize in the annotation reference, remember to enable expressions in config, otherwise you'll get "Token does not have the required roles." exception 

Reference
~~~~~~~~~
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| Expression                        | Description                                |
+===================================+============================================+
| hasRole('ROLE')                   | Checks whether the token has a certain     |
|                                   | role.                                      |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| hasAnyRole('ROLE1', 'ROLE2', ...) | Checks whether the token has any of the    |
|                                   | given roles.                               |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| isAnonymous()                     | Checks whether the token is anonymous.     |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| isRememberMe()                    | Checks whether the token is remember me.   |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| isFullyAuthenticated()            | Checks whether the token is fully          |
|                                   | authenticated.                             |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| isAuthenticated()                 | Checks whether the token is not anonymous. |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| hasPermission(*var*, 'PERMISSION')| Checks whether the token has the given     |
|                                   | permission for the given object (requires  |
|                                   | the ACL system).                           |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| token                             | Variable that refers to the token          |
|                                   | which is currently in the security context.|
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| user                              | Variable that refers to the user           |
|                                   | which is currently in the security context.|
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| object                            | Variable that refers to the object for     |
|                                   | which access is being requested.           |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| #*paramName*                      | Any identifier prefixed with # refers to   |
|                                   | a parameter of the same name that is passed|
|                                   | to the method where the expression is used.|
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| and / &&                          | Binary "and" operator                      |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| or / ||                           | Binary "or" operator                       |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| ==                                | Binary "is equal" operator                 |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+
| not / !                           | Negation operator                          |
+-----------------------------------+--------------------------------------------+

Method Security Authorization
-----------------------------
Generally, you can secure all public, or protected methods which are non-static,
and non-final. Private methods cannot be secured. You can also add metadata for
abstract methods, or interfaces which will then be applied to their concrete 
implementations automatically.

Access Control via DI configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
You can specify access control **expressions** in the DI configuration::

    # config.yml
    jms_security_extra:
        method_access_control:
            ':loginAction$': 'isAnonymous()'
            'AcmeFooBundle:.*:deleteAction': 'hasRole("ROLE_ADMIN")'
            '^MyNamespace\MyService::foo$': 'hasPermission(#user, "VIEW")' 

The pattern is a case-sensitive regular expression which is matched against two notations.
The first match is being used.

First, your pattern is matched against the notation for non-service controllers. 
This obviously is only done if your class is actually a controller, e.g. 
``AcmeFooBundle:Add:new`` for a controller named ``AddController`` and a method 
named ``newAction`` in a sub-namespace ``Controller`` in a bundle named ``AcmeFooBundle``. 

Last, your pattern is matched against the concatenation of the class name, and
the method name that is being called, e.g. ``My\Fully\Qualified\ClassName::myMethodName``.

**Note:** If you would like to secure non-service controllers, the 
``JMSDiExtraBundle`` must be installed.

Access Control via Annotations
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
If you like to secure a service with annotations, you need to enable annotation
configuration for this service::

    <service id="foo" class="Bar">
        <tag name="security.secure_service"/>
    </service>

In case, you like to configure all services via annotations, you can also set
``secure_all_services`` to true. Then, you do not need to add a tag for each 
service.


Annotations
-----------
@PreAuthorize
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This annotation lets you define an expression (see the expression language
paragraph) which is executed prior to invoking a method::

    <?php
    
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\PreAuthorize;
    
    class MyService
    {
        /** @PreAuthorize("hasRole('A') or (hasRole('B') and hasRole('C'))") */
        public function secureMethod()
        {
            // ...
        }
    }

@Secure
~~~~~~~
This annotation lets you define who is allowed to invoke a method::

    <?php
    
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\Secure;
    
    class MyService
    {
        /**
         * @Secure(roles="ROLE_USER, ROLE_FOO, ROLE_ADMIN")
         */
        public function secureMethod() 
        {
            // ...
        }
    }

@SecureParam
~~~~~~~~~~~~
This annotation lets you define restrictions for parameters which are passed to
the method. This is only useful if the parameters are domain objects::

    <?php
    
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\SecureParam;
    
    class MyService
    {
        /**
         * @SecureParam(name="comment", permissions="EDIT, DELETE")
         * @SecureParam(name="post", permissions="OWNER")
         */
        public function secureMethod($comment, $post)
        {
            // ...
        }
    }

@SecureReturn
~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This annotation lets you define restrictions for the value which is returned by
the method. This is also only useful if the returned value is a domain object::

    <?php
    
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\SecureReturn;
    
    class MyService
    {
        /**
         * @SecureReturn(permissions="VIEW")
         */
        public function secureMethod()
        {
            // ...
            
            return $domainObject;
        }
    }
    
@RunAs
~~~~~~
This annotation lets you specifiy roles which are added only for the duration 
of the method invocation. These roles will not be taken into consideration 
for before, or after invocation access decisions. 

This is typically used to implement a two-tier service layer where you have 
public and private services, and private services are only to be invoked 
through a specific public service::

    <?php
    
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\Secure;
    use JMS\SecurityExtraBundle\Annotation\RunAs;
    
    class MyPrivateService
    {
        /**
         * @Secure(roles="ROLE_PRIVATE_SERVICE")
         */
        public function aMethodOnlyToBeInvokedThroughASpecificChannel()
        {
            // ...
        }
    }
    
    class MyPublicService
    {
        protected $myPrivateService;
    
        /**
         * @Secure(roles="ROLE_USER")
         * @RunAs(roles="ROLE_PRIVATE_SERVICE")
         */
        public function canBeInvokedFromOtherServices()
        {
            return $this->myPrivateService->aMethodOnlyToBeInvokedThroughASpecificChannel();
        }
    }

@SatisfiesParentSecurityPolicy
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
This must be defined on a method that overrides a method which has security metadata.
It is there to ensure that you are aware the security of the overridden method cannot
be enforced anymore, and that you must copy over all annotations if you want to keep
them.
